# Rare-Events

## Scheduel:

### 05-04-2016
	
* Toy example finished (fixed levels & adaptive levels) 
* maybe there are some bugs in fixed levels

### 06-04-2016

* bugs in fixed-levels algorithm fixed
* remark added in the toy example
* remark corrected
* add fixed-level with adaptive levels
* review for the transition kernel

### 07-04-2016

* remark corrected
* permutation trick added (adaptive version finished)
* fluctuation analysis for idealized situation started
* bugs in fixed-level version, relative variance added for adapted version

### 08-04-2016
* bug fixed in fixed-levels version
* fluctuation analysis for fixed levels finished

*In fact, it's the choice of the sigma_1 in shaker that cause the problem! The sigma_1 could not be large or small!*

* fluctuation analysis for adaptive levels finished(for q = 2.5 to avoid the influence of bias)

### 10-04-2016

* new test results added
* add shaker in the adaptive version

 
### 11-04-2016

* the errors in algo fixed
* add adaptive procedure to control the choice of sigma_1

In fact, we choose the sigma_1 by controlling the rejection rate of the transition (K). 

* add strategy to deal with the situation when I_k is empty

* Finally got the beautiful curves !!! 

To decrease de dependence of the X_k generated by the elements of I_k, we could conduct the "shake" procedure many times. At the same time, we control the rejection rate to have the X_k as "independents" as possible.

### 12-04-2016

* class RareEvents_test finished
* add Example_for_pyrare.py 
* add comparasion (level_test = 8, N = [100, 500, 1000, 3000]) (cf. Examples for pyrare.ipynb)


### 13-04-2016

* limitation of the adaptive level algorithm : Incertitude

we do have the asymptotic results to control the incertitude of the estimation :

$$\sqrt{N} \frac{\hat p - p}{p} \overset{d}{\to} N(0,\sigma^2) $$

while, to estimate $\sigma^2$, we have to draw an extensive simulation to have a reasonable estimator of $\sigma$. So, we want to find a trade-off between complexibility and precision. For eg., to find an un-asymptotic inequality to control de incertitude. (or be able to calculate the influence of the "shake_times : times conducted Metro-Polis")



### 15-04-2016

idea :

use the little $p_0$ to fix $\hatn_0$.

To achieve this, we need a non-asymptotic control of $\mathbb{P}( \hat n_0 != n_0)$. In fact, we will reject all the p_0 which is not "correctly estimated". 

Then, with relatively little size N, we could construct an estimater with a positive bias. For the estimation of r, we regenerate the particles in the last step of the adaptive algorithm.


